nixos/README.md, before:

# NixOS Host Configuration and Documentation

## General Information about NixOS

First you have to understand that Nix is and means multiple thing. There is:
- Nix the language
- Nix the package-manager
- NixOS the distribution
- Nix the german word "nichts"

There are some offical guides to NixOS that you can find on [nixos.org](https://nixos.org/learn.html), an other source of information is the unoffical user [wiki](https://nixos.wiki/) and for a general introduction you can look at [zero-to-nix](https://zero-to-nix.com/).

## About this (part of the) repo

To use this repo and deploy hosts you need to have the nix packet manager installed on your local system.

Rough sturcture:
  * 'hosts/': host specific configuration, this are also the "starting point" for each host configuration
  * 'profiles/': profiles are commonly a set of configurations shared by multiple hosts
    * 'base/': base profile which is deployed to every host (as defined in `flake.nix`)
  * 'modules/': configuration modules, that provide options to configure single packages
  * 'flake.nix': starting point of the whole nix configuration
  * 'hosts.nix': hosts that can be deployed with this repo, maybe special deployment settings for the hosts

For each host deployed with this repo there is a set of default options configured for each host (`flake.nix` `outputs.colmena.default`) and all host specific options which should be placed under `hosts/<hostname>/`.

We use `colemena` to deploy configs to our `nix`-based hosts.

## Frequent tasks

### Deploy a host

To deploy a specific host simple run

    colmena apply switch --on "<name from host.nix>"

When you are on a non `x86_64-linux` platform you want to use a nix remote builder.
In case you don't have a remote-builder available you can do `--build-on-target` to use the target machine as builder.


### Add new host to this repo

Install `nixos` on a host, copy `configuration.nix` and `hardware-configuration.nix` to the host folder in this repo.
Rename `configuration.nix` to `default.nix`. ... profit!

Maybe there will be a better way for this is the future, mainly for the `nixos` install part, which is kind of annoying.

## Specials

### Loudness Player (WIP)

In the current working state define streams and i3layout in `hosts/loudness-player/default.nix` and then build the iso

    nix build .#nixosConfigurations.loudness-player.config.system.build.isoImage

The image is symlinked in the result folder in this directory, flah it to an USB Drive, boot it (the grub entry is called installer, don't worry, nothing will be installed) adn enjoy the loudness monitoring

Commit message:

loudness-player: update build docs

nixos/README.md, after:

# NixOS Host Configuration and Documentation

## General Information about NixOS

First you have to understand that Nix is and means multiple thing. There is:
- Nix the language
- Nix the package-manager
- NixOS the distribution
- Nix the german word "nichts"

There are some offical guides to NixOS that you can find on [nixos.org](https://nixos.org/learn.html), an other source of information is the unoffical user [wiki](https://nixos.wiki/) and for a general introduction you can look at [zero-to-nix](https://zero-to-nix.com/).

## About this (part of the) repo

To use this repo and deploy hosts you need to have the nix packet manager installed on your local system.

Rough sturcture:
  * 'hosts/': host specific configuration, this are also the "starting point" for each host configuration
  * 'profiles/': profiles are commonly a set of configurations shared by multiple hosts
    * 'base/': base profile which is deployed to every host (as defined in `flake.nix`)
  * 'modules/': configuration modules, that provide options to configure single packages
  * 'flake.nix': starting point of the whole nix configuration
  * 'hosts.nix': hosts that can be deployed with this repo, maybe special deployment settings for the hosts

For each host deployed with this repo there is a set of default options configured for each host (`flake.nix` `outputs.colmena.default`) and all host specific options which should be placed under `hosts/<hostname>/`.

We use `colemena` to deploy configs to our `nix`-based hosts.

## Frequent tasks

### Deploy a host

To deploy a specific host simple run

    colmena apply switch --on "<name from host.nix>"

When you are on a non `x86_64-linux` platform you want to use a nix remote builder.
In case you don't have a remote-builder available you can do `--build-on-target` to use the target machine as builder.


### Add new host to this repo

Install `nixos` on a host, copy `configuration.nix` and `hardware-configuration.nix` to the host folder in this repo.
Rename `configuration.nix` to `default.nix`. ... profit!

Maybe there will be a better way for this is the future, mainly for the `nixos` install part, which is kind of annoying.

## Specials

### Loudness Player (WIP)

In the current working state define streams and i3layout in `hosts/loudness-player/default.nix`. Either build and deploy the system configuration directly from a local checkout on the loudness-player machine (untested) with

	sudo nixos-rebuild --flake .#nixosConfigurations.loudness-player.config.system.build.toplevel

or build the configuration on another Linux machine with Nix installed

	nix build .#nixosConfigurations.loudness-player.config.system.build.toplevel

and then copy the closure with `nix-copy-closure` and then manually run `switch-to-configuration` and update the system profile symlink.
