bundlewrap/README.md, before:

# c3voc Bundlewrap Repository

Setting up this repository is easy:

```
pip3 install -r requirements.txt
```

You do not need to set up Keepass or a bundlewrap .secrets.cfg for basic
encoder setup.

If you have access to the c3voc keepass file, you may want to set up
keepass and the .secrets.cfg:

```
export BW_KEEPASS_FILE=$HOME/whereever/the/voc/keepass/lives.kdbx
export BW_KEEPASS_PASSWORD=reallysecure
```

The contents of the `.secrets.cfg` file can be found in the keepass file,
too. If you need access to the `.secrets.cfg` file, but don't have keepass
access, please let us know.

The `.secrets.cfg` file should be deployed in the same directory as this
README file.

You want to set up ssh multiplexing for fast runs:
```
Host *
    ControlPath ~/.ssh/cm-%r@%h:%p
    ControlMaster auto
    ControlPersist 10m
```

## Usage

These are just some examples, please refer to the
[bundlewrap documentation](https://docs.bundlewrap.org/guide/cli/)
for more information.

```
# apply configuration to system(s), restarting services as needed
$ bw apply <system or group>

# apply configuration to system(s), skipping all restarts that would
# interrupt a stream or recording
$ bw apply -s tag:causes-downtime -- <system or group>

# apply configuration to system(s), but ask before doing any change, so
# you can decide if you really want to do the change
$ bw apply -i <system or group>

# dry-run, show all changes an apply would do, without doing any actual
# changes on the system
$ bw verify <system or group>

# verify configuration for a system locally
# if you don't have keepass access, you have to append -i flag
$ bw test <system or group>
```

`<system or group>` can be a single system name, like `encoder1` or
a group of systems, like `saal1`. The saal groups contain all systems
in that case (encoder, minion, mixer, all tally pis).

## Event setup

To set up a new event, do the following steps, add `yourevent.toml` to
the `groups` directory in this repository. That file should contain the
basic information about your event:

```toml
subgroups = ["saal1", "saal2"]
members = ["releasing"]

[metadata.event]
name = "ZYXcon"
slug = "XYZ"
```

The event slug *must* match the `Project.Slug` property in our ticket
tracker.

Please add the rooms used in your event to the `subgroups` list of the
file.

Available room setups:
* saal1
* saal2
* saal3
* saal4
* saal5
* saal6
* saal23 (CCCB)
* saal28 (realraum Graz / Grazer Linuxtage)
* saal80 (muccc)
* saal81 (hacc)
* saal96 (kunsi)
* saal98 (derpeter)
* saal191 (seibert)
* servercase

To set a room name, simply edit the `room_name` value in `nodes/yourencoder.toml`:

```toml
[metadata.event]
room_name = "myroom"
```

It is important that you never commit `yourevent.toml` to the main branch
of this repository. Instead, please create a branch named `events/XYZ`,
replacing `XYZ` with your event slug.

### Overlays

If you want to use overlays ("Bauchbinden" in German), you have to add
the key `overlays` to `yourevent.toml`. The value of this key should be
a full-blown URL pointing to a `.tar.gz`-Archive containing the overlays
themselves. You can create it using `tar -czf overlays.tar.gz *.png`.

If the event uses a `schedule.json` file, you can add it to the config
using the `schedule_json` key. This needs to be a URL, too.

If the event does not use a schedule, you can specify
filename-to-title-Mappings yourself. You can do so using the
`event/overlay_mapping` metadata key.

If you provide a schedule.xml and `event/overlay_mapping`, the schedule
will take preference.

#### Example config

```toml
[metadata.event]
schedule_json = "https://example.com/schedule.json"
overlays = "https://example.com/overlays.tar.gz"

[metadata.event.overlay_mappings]
# Omit ".png" from filename here
graphic1 = "Alice"
graphic2 = "Bob"
graphic3 = "Alice and Bob"
```

### Custom artwork

Using this repository, you can deploy room-specific or event-specific
(or a mixture of both) artwork to the encoders.

Place your artwork into `data/voctocore-artwork/files/<event_slug>/`
for event-specific artwork, into
`data/voctocore-artwork/files/<event_slug>/saal<number>/` for
room-specific artwork.

Room-specific artwork will take preference over event-specific artwork.
In case neither is found, bundlewrap will use the generic VOC artwork.


### ATEM Mini

Bundlewrap will deploy
[pygtk-atem-switcher](https://github.com/kunsi/pygtk-atem-switcher) to
each mixer laptop.

If your ATEM is not reachable at `10.73.<room>.40`, please set the
metadata `pygtk-atem-switcher/atem/ip` to the correct ip address.

pygtk-atem-switcher will enforce some settings on startup to ensure
smooth operation in all cases. To change these settings, add the
following metadata to the `nodes/yourmixer.toml` file.

If you wish to hide an input from the software, set its name to `empty`
or `x`.

```toml
# All those values represent the defaults set by bundlewrap, you only
# need to copy what you want to change.
[metadata.pygtk-atem-switcher.atem]
video_mode = "1080p25"

[metadata.pygtk-atem-switcher.atem.settings.inputs]
# use "x" to hide the button in the UI
input1 = "Laptop"
input2 = "x"
input3 = "x"
input4 = "info-beamer"
```

## Provisioning of a new system

Provisioning of a new system is relatively straightforward, but mentioned
here for completeness.

1. Boot the debian installer of the desired debian version
2. During installation, ensure you create the user `voc` instead of your
   own user.
3. Log in to the system and set up the following:
    * Log in for user `voc` without a password
    * `sudo` for user `voc` without a password
    * Add all mounts to `/etc/fstab` and mount the filesystems.
4. Ensure you can run `ssh yoursystem.lan.c3voc.de 'sudo date'` without
   issues. Use the hostname set in the node file to verify (the default
   is `{nodename}.lan.c3voc.de`).
5. Ensure you have both keepass access and access to the bundlewrap
   `.secrets.cfg`
6. Run `BW_SSH_ARGS="-l voc" bw apply -P4 {nodename}` - using `-P4`
   will ensure you don't run into "too many startups" issues with the
   debian default sshd config.

Commit message:

bw: loudness-rendering goes cloud

bundlewrap/README.md, after:

# c3voc Bundlewrap Repository

Setting up this repository is easy:

```
pip3 install -r requirements.txt
```

You do not need to set up Keepass or a bundlewrap .secrets.cfg for basic
encoder setup.

If you have access to the c3voc keepass file, you may want to set up
keepass and the .secrets.cfg:

```
export BW_KEEPASS_FILE=$HOME/whereever/the/voc/keepass/lives.kdbx
export BW_KEEPASS_PASSWORD=reallysecure
```

The contents of the `.secrets.cfg` file can be found in the keepass file,
too. If you need access to the `.secrets.cfg` file, but don't have keepass
access, please let us know.

The `.secrets.cfg` file should be deployed in the same directory as this
README file.

You want to set up ssh multiplexing for fast runs:
```
Host *
    ControlPath ~/.ssh/cm-%r@%h:%p
    ControlMaster auto
    ControlPersist 10m
```

## Usage

These are just some examples, please refer to the
[bundlewrap documentation](https://docs.bundlewrap.org/guide/cli/)
for more information.

```
# apply configuration to system(s), restarting services as needed
$ bw apply <system or group>

# apply configuration to system(s), skipping all restarts that would
# interrupt a stream or recording
$ bw apply -s tag:causes-downtime -- <system or group>

# apply configuration to system(s), but ask before doing any change, so
# you can decide if you really want to do the change
$ bw apply -i <system or group>

# dry-run, show all changes an apply would do, without doing any actual
# changes on the system
$ bw verify <system or group>

# verify configuration for a system locally
# if you don't have keepass access, you have to append -i flag
$ bw test <system or group>
```

`<system or group>` can be a single system name, like `encoder1` or
a group of systems, like `saal1`. The saal groups contain all systems
in that case (encoder, minion, mixer, all tally pis).

## Event setup

To set up a new event, do the following steps, add `yourevent.toml` to
the `groups` directory in this repository. That file should contain the
basic information about your event:

```toml
subgroups = ["saal1", "saal2"]
members = ["releasing"]

[metadata.event]
name = "ZYXcon"
slug = "XYZ"
```

The event slug *must* match the `Project.Slug` property in our ticket
tracker.

Please add the rooms used in your event to the `subgroups` list of the
file.

Available room setups:
* saal1
* saal2
* saal3
* saal4
* saal5
* saal6
* saal23 (CCCB)
* saal28 (realraum Graz / Grazer Linuxtage)
* saal80 (muccc)
* saal81 (hacc)
* saal96 (kunsi)
* saal98 (derpeter)
* saal191 (seibert)
* servercase

To set a room name, simply edit the `room_name` value in `nodes/yourencoder.toml`:

```toml
[metadata.event]
room_name = "myroom"
```

It is important that you never commit `yourevent.toml` to the main branch
of this repository. Instead, please create a branch named `events/XYZ`,
replacing `XYZ` with your event slug.

If you want to have loudness rendering for your event, add `loudness-rendering`
to the `members` of the event group and ideally also set a `schedule_json`:

```toml
members = ["releasing", "loudness-rendering"]

[metadata]
schedule_json = "https://pretalx.example.com/democon/schedule/export/schedule.json"
```

### Overlays

If you want to use overlays ("Bauchbinden" in German), you have to add
the key `overlays` to `yourevent.toml`. The value of this key should be
a full-blown URL pointing to a `.tar.gz`-Archive containing the overlays
themselves. You can create it using `tar -czf overlays.tar.gz *.png`.

If the event uses a `schedule.json` file, you can add it to the config
using the `schedule_json` key. This needs to be a URL, too.

If the event does not use a schedule, you can specify
filename-to-title-Mappings yourself. You can do so using the
`event/overlay_mapping` metadata key.

If you provide a schedule.xml and `event/overlay_mapping`, the schedule
will take preference.

#### Example config

```toml
[metadata.event]
schedule_json = "https://example.com/schedule.json"
overlays = "https://example.com/overlays.tar.gz"

[metadata.event.overlay_mappings]
# Omit ".png" from filename here
graphic1 = "Alice"
graphic2 = "Bob"
graphic3 = "Alice and Bob"
```

### Custom artwork

Using this repository, you can deploy room-specific or event-specific
(or a mixture of both) artwork to the encoders.

Place your artwork into `data/voctocore-artwork/files/<event_slug>/`
for event-specific artwork, into
`data/voctocore-artwork/files/<event_slug>/saal<number>/` for
room-specific artwork.

Room-specific artwork will take preference over event-specific artwork.
In case neither is found, bundlewrap will use the generic VOC artwork.


### ATEM Mini

Bundlewrap will deploy
[pygtk-atem-switcher](https://github.com/kunsi/pygtk-atem-switcher) to
each mixer laptop.

If your ATEM is not reachable at `10.73.<room>.40`, please set the
metadata `pygtk-atem-switcher/atem/ip` to the correct ip address.

pygtk-atem-switcher will enforce some settings on startup to ensure
smooth operation in all cases. To change these settings, add the
following metadata to the `nodes/yourmixer.toml` file.

If you wish to hide an input from the software, set its name to `empty`
or `x`.

```toml
# All those values represent the defaults set by bundlewrap, you only
# need to copy what you want to change.
[metadata.pygtk-atem-switcher.atem]
video_mode = "1080p25"

[metadata.pygtk-atem-switcher.atem.settings.inputs]
# use "x" to hide the button in the UI
input1 = "Laptop"
input2 = "x"
input3 = "x"
input4 = "info-beamer"
```

## Provisioning of a new system

Provisioning of a new system is relatively straightforward, but mentioned
here for completeness.

1. Boot the debian installer of the desired debian version
2. During installation, ensure you create the user `voc` instead of your
   own user.
3. Log in to the system and set up the following:
    * Log in for user `voc` without a password
    * `sudo` for user `voc` without a password
    * Add all mounts to `/etc/fstab` and mount the filesystems.
4. Ensure you can run `ssh yoursystem.lan.c3voc.de 'sudo date'` without
   issues. Use the hostname set in the node file to verify (the default
   is `{nodename}.lan.c3voc.de`).
5. Ensure you have both keepass access and access to the bundlewrap
   `.secrets.cfg`
6. Run `BW_SSH_ARGS="-l voc" bw apply -P4 {nodename}` - using `-P4`
   will ensure you don't run into "too many startups" issues with the
   debian default sshd config.
